README.md, before:

rackops is a tool for performing operations on rack operations.

It currently supports Netbox hosts and the Lenovo, Fujitsu, Dell providers.

To add a host or provider read [CONTRIBUTING.md](docs/CONTRIBUTING.md).

Installation
============

1. Clone the repository.
2. `apt-get install python3-setuptools python3-requests python3-bs4
   python3-slimit python3-distutils`
3. On the root directory perform `python3 setup.py install`

Configuration
=============

rackops uses a JSON configuration file.
It defaults to `~/.rackopsrc`, but a different configuration file
can be used using the `-c` command line argument.

The configuration file should have this form:
```
{
    "host": <host>,
    "api_url": <api_url>,
    "username": <urername>,
    "password": <password>
}
```

where:
- `host` is the name of your host. Currently `host` can only be `"netbox"`.
- `api_url` is the URL of your host's API (i.e.
  https://netbox.noc.grnet.gr/api/dcim/devices/)
- `username` is the username that will be used while connecting to a provider,
  while
- `password` is the password that will be used

If environment variables for the above values are defined, they will overwrite
those from the configuration file. The environment variables supported are:

- `RACKOPS_USERNAME`
- `RACKOPS_PASSWORD`
- `RACKOPS_HOST`
- `RACKOPS_API_URL`

If command line arguments for the username and password are defined, they will overwrite
those from the configuration file and the environment variables.

Usage
=====

rackops can work as a CLI module or a python3 module.


CLI
---

`rackops <command> <identifier>`

The non-required command line arguments are:

- `-c`,`--config`. The location of the configuration file.
- `-u`, `--username`
- `-p`, `--password`. With this argument if the password is not provided as a string,
    the user will be prompted for entering a password.
- `-f`, `--force`. Some commands can be run with this argument. See `Commands`
  for more details.
- `-w`, `--wait`. Some commands can be run with this argument. See `Commands`
  for more details.
- `-v`, `--verbose`. Print logs.


As a module
-----------

1. `from rackops.rackops import Rackops`
2. `rackops = Rackops(command, identifier, config)`. `config` should be a hash
   table with the values defined in the *Configuration* section. If the command
   executed is intended to run with the `--force`, `--wait` or `--verbose` options,
   the `config` table should include the `force`, `wait` or `verbose` keys set
   to `True` respectively.
3. `rackops.run()`

Commands
--------

- `info`: Print information regarding the machine.
- `console`: Opens a Java console on the remote machine.
- `open`: Opens the IPMI host url on the client machine.
- `status`: Prints information regarding the status of the remote machine.
- `power-status`: Prints whether the machine is on/off.
- `power-on`: Powers on the machine.
- `power-off`: Sends a signal to the operating system for shutoff.
    Can be run with the `--force` command line argument for a hard shutoff.
    Can be run with the `--wait` argument to wait until the operating system
    shutoff is complete before exiting.
- `power-cycle`: Soft restart.
- `power-reset`: Hard restart.
- `boot-pxe`: Force pxe boot.
- `boot-local`: Force boot from default harddrive.
- `ipmi-reset`: Restart ipmi device. Can be run with the `--force` command line
  argument for resetting the ipmi device.
- `ipmi-logs`: Print system event logs.
- diagnostics : Initiate diagnostics report on Dell ipmi and export it to an
    nfs share

Commit message:

Add update and idrac-info functionality for Dell hosts
Summary:
autoupdate: schedules and enables automatic updates on an idrac, using our own repo and catalog

upgrade: instantly upgrades an idrac via the bundle in our repo

idrac-info: queries the idrac and returns info like bios version and lifecycle controller version

Related tasks: T2346, T2295

Test Plan: lots of idracs eg g98k992

Reviewers: #servers, stefanosliv

Reviewed By: #servers, stefanosliv

Subscribers: stefanosliv, #servers

Differential Revision: https://phab.noc.grnet.gr/D5339

README.md, after:

rackops is a tool for performing operations on rack operations.

It currently supports Netbox hosts and the Lenovo, Fujitsu, Dell providers.

To add a host or provider read [CONTRIBUTING.md](docs/CONTRIBUTING.md).

Installation
============

1. Clone the repository.
2. `apt-get install python3-setuptools python3-requests python3-bs4
   python3-slimit python3-distutils`
3. On the root directory perform `python3 setup.py install`

Configuration
=============

rackops uses a JSON configuration file.
It defaults to `~/.rackopsrc`, but a different configuration file
can be used using the `-c` command line argument.

The configuration file should have this form:
```
{
    "host": <host>,
    "api_url": <api_url>,
    "username": <urername>,
    "password": <password>
    "nfs_share": "IP:/path/",
    "http_share": "http://IP/path/"
}
```

where:
- `host` is the name of your host. Currently `host` can only be `"netbox"`.
- `api_url` is the URL of your host's API (i.e.
  https://netbox.noc.grnet.gr/api/dcim/devices/)
- `username` is the username that will be used while connecting to a provider,
  while
- `password` is the password that will be used
- `nfs_share` is the nfs share where diagnostics from Dell hosts are uploaded,
- `http_share` is an http share where Dell hosts retrieve idrac updates from,

If environment variables for the above values are defined, they will overwrite
those from the configuration file. The environment variables supported are:

- `RACKOPS_USERNAME`
- `RACKOPS_PASSWORD`
- `RACKOPS_HOST`
- `RACKOPS_API_URL`

If command line arguments for the username and password are defined, they will overwrite
those from the configuration file and the environment variables.

Usage
=====

rackops can work as a CLI module or a python3 module.


CLI
---

`rackops <command> <identifier>`

The non-required command line arguments are:

- `-c`,`--config`. The location of the configuration file.
- `-u`, `--username`
- `-p`, `--password`. With this argument if the password is not provided as a string,
    the user will be prompted for entering a password.
- `-f`, `--force`. Some commands can be run with this argument. See `Commands`
  for more details.
- `-w`, `--wait`. Some commands can be run with this argument. See `Commands`
  for more details.
- `-v`, `--verbose`. Print logs.


As a module
-----------

1. `from rackops.rackops import Rackops`
2. `rackops = Rackops(command, identifier, config)`. `config` should be a hash
   table with the values defined in the *Configuration* section. If the command
   executed is intended to run with the `--force`, `--wait` or `--verbose` options,
   the `config` table should include the `force`, `wait` or `verbose` keys set
   to `True` respectively.
3. `rackops.run()`

Commands
--------

- `info`: Print information regarding the machine.
- `console`: Opens a Java console on the remote machine.
- `open`: Opens the IPMI host url on the client machine.
- `status`: Prints information regarding the status of the remote machine.
- `power-status`: Prints whether the machine is on/off.
- `power-on`: Powers on the machine.
- `power-off`: Sends a signal to the operating system for shutoff.
    Can be run with the `--force` command line argument for a hard shutoff.
    Can be run with the `--wait` argument to wait until the operating system
    shutoff is complete before exiting.
- `power-cycle`: Soft restart.
- `power-reset`: Hard restart.
- `boot-pxe`: Force pxe boot.
- `boot-local`: Force boot from default harddrive.
- `ipmi-reset`: Restart ipmi device. Can be run with the `--force` command line
  argument for resetting the ipmi device.
- `ipmi-logs`: Print system event logs.
- `diagnostics` : Initiate diagnostics report on Dell ipmi and export it to an
    nfs share
- `autoupdate`: Schedule auto updates on a Dell host every day at 08:30
- `upgrade`: Instantly update an iDrac's firmware from an http share
- `idrac-info`: Receive BIOS version and controller info from an iDrac
